---
layout: post
title: "Bash Story - 1"
author: "Ngari Ndung'u"
categories: Tech
---

While I could probably go on and on about each small command I've picked up, this will be more of a list. But, you can't stop me ranting about the pain behind learning each. In related news, I'm up to **200**(give or take) unique bash `$ commands`! I know... impressive right?

#### Gone groping... I mean `dig`in
The 'domain information groper' is as the name suggests, a tool to query DNS servers.
 If there's anything that has been a source of frustation for me over the last month is getting my custom domain working with github pages.
 The usage you'll find in github's [troubleshooting] guide is:

~~~ shell
$ dig www.ngarindungu.me.ke +nostats +nocomments +nocmd
~~~
I used this command as is for **61** times before I realized that I was using it wrong!
Needless to say, I kept getting *frustrating* results. My site seemed to have magical powers. **Now you see me, now you don't**.
Turns out I need to pass the nameservers to query. This defaults to localhost, which of course means that if my browser hasn't already found my site, `dig` won't.

> Lesson learnt: `man [whatever-command]` should be my first go-to guy!

#### I don't like that we're `diff`erent. How about a `patch`?
I will admit that git is still not a language I speak fluently. Case in point, while I was testing my [places] page, I created a separate HTML project for it.
After hacking and feeling comfortable with the extended map code I had, it was time to bring the *.js* file back into my repository.
Comparing two files side-by-side and making manual edits is of course boring so...

~~~ shell
$ man diff
$ man patch
~~~
These two commands work together to show the `diff`erences between two files and update(`patch`) an older file to match the newest version. Tutorial [here][patch tutorial].

#### Get this, `git` that
While not the first time using "the stupid content tracker", I find that I am far from understanding its potential.
I've issued the `git [something]` command a total of **229** times. Makes sense, assuming a normal `add > commit > push` workflow, and throwing in the occassional `log`, `branch` and `checkout` commands.

#### `Jekyll` is here to `serve`
If I wasn't seeing my changes locally while writing this, the site would be (insert expletive here). The command is:

~~~ shell
$ bundle exec jekyll serve --drafts
~~~

Well, at least you know that I check my work *kidogo*.

#### I will be `watch`ing you

> watch - execute a program periodically, showing output fullscreen

Now, why would i want to do that? My desktop is failing. Shutting down on me without the slightest hint of *courtesy*. Stupid computer!
I suspected that my processor may be overheating, and needed a way to check the reported temperature at intervals until it shutdown.

~~~shell
$ watch -n 60 'sensors | cat >> temps.txt'
~~~

This command will run the `sensors` command every 60 seconds and pipe the output to temps.txt. I realized(just now) that piping to cat was a very *uninformed* idea, but hey, am learning!

#### The numbers
While writing this I thought that it would be nice if I had a way of knowing how many times I have run a command.
I am sure there are far better shell commands I could run to do this, but since am learning python, I gave it a [swing][python scripts].

[troubleshooting]: https://help.github.com/articles/troubleshooting-custom-domains/#github-repository-setup-errors
[places]:{{site.url}}/places
[patch tutorial]:https://linuxacademy.com/blog/linux/introduction-using-diff-and-patch/
[python scripts]:https://github.com/NgariNdungu/random_scripts/tree/master/python
